Challenges in Machine Learning.

There are 8 Major Challenges in Machine Learning that you will face in your career.

i -> Data Collection.

Machine Learning is all about learning from data. So if we have not data how we train our model?

So if we have not data what's the point?

If we have not radimate data. Then we may perform 2 steps.

a -> Fetch Data from API

b -> Web Scrapping

Note: They may issue some error while gathering data from them. It's a difficult task.






ii -> Insufficient Data / Labeled Data.

Let's Suppoose we have two algorithms working on the same problem but the amout of data is different.

Algorithm A is much better than algorithm B.

A		B

100 Rows	10 Lakh Rows

M1		M2

A company realizes if you many more data then it's not mandatory that which algorithm you use. It's called Unreasonable effectiveness of data.

But gathering ok data is very difficult.

So from this we get if we have a lot of data algorithm does not matter.

But gather a huge data is a bit difficult task. We have small or medium datasets so algorithm is matter now a days.







iii -> Non-representative Data

Non-representative data occurs when the data collected does not accurately reflect the broader population or context it is meant to represent.

This often leads to incorrect predictions or conclusions.

For example, if we conduct a survey in Pakistan asking who will win the World Cup, and predict that Pakistan will win simply because it is our home country,

The prediction may be biased. To make an accurate prediction, the survey should include responses from individuals in all countries participating in the World Cup.

This ensures that the data is representative of all the relevant stakeholders, rather than just a partial view.

This is called Sampling Noise. and Sampling biased. Like 200 pakistanis from other countries.









iv -> Poor Quality Data.

It's said that if you are woking on a Machine Learning project. You should give 60% time to data . and ther other 40% time to the reamining algorithm.

If our data is not good according to quality wise then our algorithm will not work.

Machine learning algorithm is rely on the data so it's not work.

Poor data means missing values , Double values and also many more.






v -> Irrelevant Features.

Features means Columns. So consider we have some columns that not contribute in our data analysis. So it's also a problem.

There is a phase : Garbage in  ,    Garbage out.

It means if we put garbage in we will get garbage in the output.

For example: Let's suppose you arrange a race. And you have data of so many peoples. You have age , weight , height , fitness etc.

So a fit people can participate in race right? 

Input columns :  Age , Weight , Height , Location.   Location is nothing if we remove it our work should go.




vi -> OverFitting.

If you train a model in the data. And this Machine Learning Model remember the data only but not concept the data. 

Then if we give new data to our model it not works properly. Becuase it's remember the previous data. Then it's called overfitting.

For example: I go to lahore then i go cinema and i watch the movie and the price of the ticket is very costly and I remember that everything in lahore is costly.

Same as in ML model they remember everything and it thinks everyhing is just like that.





vii -> UnderFitting.

Underfitting in machine learning is when a model is too simple to understand the patterns in the data.

Resulting in poor performance on both the training and new data. 

It's like trying to solve a complex problem with a basic tool that can't handle the job.





viii -> Software Integerations.

When you are working on ML problem the end goal is this model will made a software that's help user to help like recomendation System. Loan default system

The second difficult work is put the ML model in the software as ML model will not work lonely. And it's not very easy work.

In softwares we have different platforms like windows , mac , linux , android.

As ML is popular now a days.

Our model not works properly on previous techs likes JAVA , C++.

Recently TensorFlow launch his Libaray in JS.

The things are not stable now . We have to do a lot of work if we want ML in drowns.




ix -> Ofline Learning

Same as last.





x -> Cost Involved

A lot of costs are required like we don't know how our money expand.




















































