-> What is Machine Learning?

Machine Learning is a feild of computer science that uses a statistical technique to give computer systems the ability to learn with data, without being explicted programming.

In Simple words Machine learning is all about Learning from data.

-> What is Explict programming?

In Explict Programming we have to write code of every single scenario to handle this scenario.


-> Uses of ML:

We have many scenarios but we can't write code in these scenarios. So in these scenarios we use Machine Learning.

1) Email Spam:

Like a CEO asign you the task to identify wether the email is spam or not. What you did?

You write many patterns to handle the situation like you write many If-Else conditions like if there are 3 discounts and 3 huge words in the email. Then it is spam.

But just think if any advertising company know your patterns then may be if they use massive instead of huge then your pattern not send this mail to spam. 

Because you are not right the condition in it. So then you have to modify your code like rewrite your logics.

-> But in Machine learning since we learn from data then if the data changes then your algorithm handle all the situtation by itself. 

It will made the logic by itself. And that's the beauty of Machine Learning.

2) Image Classifications

Imagine a client asked you to write a program to check wether the given animal is dog or not.

As you know we have different breeds of dog so will you write every condition to fullfill the scenario? We can't

-> So in these scenarios we use Machine Learning becuase we learn from data as the human beings learn.



What is Data Analysis?

Data Analysis is the process where we find the hidden information or useful insights from data by plotting graphs or anything else. 

Like : Predicting weather , Trading and Bitcoin price.

But sometime we can't find the useful insights by just plotting graphs.


What is data mining?

Like if we want to create a email span identifier you will apply an algorithm on data and this algorithm should identify the data and give you the output.

In simple words we create a prediction model.	

Then you should go and check the ML model and check that ML model follow which patterns to check wether the email is spam or not.

And this is called Data Mining. Like extract information very deeply and maybe extract information by using ML patterns.

So that's why ML is very important. So that's for Data Mining Machine Learning is the best tool.


History of ML:

As ML are in industry for a very long time but no body knows about ML.

Why peoples don't know about ML?

Bcz for ML we need data and for processing we need algoirthm that our Machine not handle.

Let's suppose if we have data but not a good hardware then this data is nothing.

So when the internet comes we will create many data in just one year 2016. Like data from the start of the world to 2015 are only create in 2016.

So then ML graph starting up.

