Have you ever listen that a company told that you use our product more the performance of our product will be better more and more.

Like according to useability the performance of our product will be better more and more.

Many companies are talking about Online Machine Learning.

It means they train there model according to it like on the way on the server there model improve by new data.

Online machine learning refers to a model training approach where the algorithm learns from data in a sequential manner, updating its knowledge as new data arrives. 

Unlike traditional batch learning, which requires the entire dataset to be processed at once, online learning processes data incrementally. 

This is particularly useful for situations where data is too large to fit into memory, or when the data is constantly changing and needs to be updated in real-time.

Real-time Recommendation Systems:

Platforms like Netflix or Amazon use online machine learning to update recommendations in real-time based on user interactions and preferences. 

As users watch movies or browse products, the system continuously adapts and improves its recommendations.

Spam Detection:

Email services such as Gmail use online learning to classify incoming emails as spam or not spam. 

The system updates its model with new data about spam and non-spam emails to improve accuracy over time.

When to use?	

i-> Where there is a concept drift	

What is concept drift?

You made a machine learning model to solve a problem but the nature of the problem change again and again.

Like : Stock Market and E-commmerce store -> Seasons , Sales

So in scenerior where nature of the problem change very fastly so you have to use Online learning there.

ii-> Cost Effective	It's too much cost effective as compared to batch machine learning

iii-> Faster Solution  Since we give data in small batches so its faster.

In Scikit learning module there are certain algorithms that allows you to increamentally increase your data.

SGDRessor() is the varient of Linear Regression. SGDRessor() algorithm is same as Linear Regression Model

Popular Libraries :

1-> River

https://riverml.xyz/dev/

2-> Scikit Learn

3-> VOWPAL WABBIT

https://vowpalwabbit.org/

-> Learning Rate:

Learning Rate means How frequenlty you train on your data.Like data is come very consistently but it depends on you how frequent you train your model.

You can't do this that you train your model on every single incoming point. When you do this then your model train very fastly and forgent the previous things.

So you could not like that forget the previous things and remember the new things. And also you can't want to learn very slowly.

So you have to fix the learning rate. Then your model learn the new things and remember the previous things.

So fix the learning point in the online learning for your bussiness is very difficult work.

So if you can't do this then your model can't do the work you are looking for or maybe they misbehave. 

So learning rate is the tricky thing.


-> Out of Core Learning

Let's suppose we have a large dataset. We cannot load this huge dataset in our system at once in batch learning.

Like we have ram of 8gb and we have dataset of 50gb we can't load this data in our system or trainin is to impossible.

So in these scenerios we use Online Machine Learning by providing sequentlly data. 

In Simple Words , in out of core learning we train the model ofline but we train the model in chunks of data.

->  Disadvantages

i-> Tricky to use

Tricky in the sense that train the model is not very difficult but it's very difficult that it gives the require output you expect.

Maybe due to learning rate. Maybe due to speed of data. Different things.

ii-> Risky

Like we train data online. Let's suppose if data wrong data come. What you do?

But yup there would be a solution you may put the anomly algorithm there that detects the unrelative changings and ofline the server at time.