	Types of ML 

There are many types of ML but main are 4:

1 -> Supervised Machine Learning 

	i  -> Regression
	ii -> Classification
	
2 -> UnSupervised Machine Learing

	i  -> Clustering 
	ii -> Dimensionality Reduction
	iii -> Anomaly Detection
	iv -> Association Rule Learning


3 -> Semi Supervised
4 -> Reinforcement

Types of Data:

We have 2 types of Data:

-> Numerical    

Age , IQ , CGPA , Weight

-> Categorical

Gender , Nationality 


1 -> Supervised Machine Learning

Machine Learning is all about Learning from data. So, If in data you have both input and output but you want to find the realtion between them.

So for the new input you will tell the output. So this learning is called Supervised Machine Learning.

Lets suppose we have data of 5000 students.

Iq	CGPA	Placement(y / n)

76	7.8	Yes
84	8.1	Yes
56	6.3	No

So in this data set we have both input and output. From this dataset our ML model recognize the main relationship between the input and output for future use.

Note :  We use mostly Supervised Machine Learning ahead.

i-> Regression

Let's suppose we have a Supervised ML problem. It means in the dataset we have both input and output columns.

We just have to check that wether the output column is numerical or categorical. If column is numerical then we use Regression model there.

i-> Classification

Let's suppose we have a Supervised ML problem. It means in the dataset we have both input and output columns.

We just have to check that wether the output column is numerical or categorical. If column is catergorical then we use Classification model there.

For Example: 

->  If we have a dateset where all the info of the house is stored like how many rooms , bathrooms and kitchens and in the output we have house pize. 

Then we use Regression Model there.

->  As we dicussed before about the dataset of students. It will be the example of Classification model.


2-> UnSupervised Machine Learning

UnSupervised Machine Learning is quite opposite from Supervised Machine Learning.

In UnSupervised Machine Learning we only have input we don't have output. It means Prediction is not possible.

So we may work with Clustering , Anomoly Detection , Dimensionally Reduction or Associate Rule Learning

i -> Clustering

Let's suppose we have dataset of 5000 students.

IQ	CGPA	Output / Label

80	9.8	0
43	1.3	1
54	6.4	2

In the Clustering, I grouping the IQ OR CGPA and label the data according to me for Supervised ML like 0 if both are ok , 1 if IQ is less and 2 if both are less.

In simple words I caterized the data.

Clustering is very useful in today's industries.

ii -> Dimensionally Reduction

In simple terms, dimensionality reduction involves reducing the number of columns in a dataset like 2 columns to 1 columns or 3 columns to 1 columns for better use.

Let's suppose we have a dataset that has more than 1000 columns so our algorithm works very slowly on this dataset. 

If we want add more columns in it. It's very difficult for us to add. So in this scenerio we use Dimensionally Reduction.

For Example :

We have a dataset of house in which we have 3 columns , No of rooms , No of bathrooms and No of Kitchens. So in these scenerio we have to predict the prize of house.

So if we concatenate all the 3 columns to one by squrefit area like we create a new columns from the existing columns. It's called Feature Selection.

So we create a new columns by given multiple columns since no of columns reduced. Then its called Dimensionally Reduction.

There is an algorithm called PCA we will work on Principal component analysis (PCA) in future.

iii -> Anomoly Detection

Anomaly detection, also known as outlier detection, is the process of identifying data points, events, or patterns that

deviate significantly from the expected behavior of a dataset. 

These anomalies can indicate critical issues, such as technical faults, fraudulent activities, or changes in system behavior. 

iv -> Associate Rule Learning

Association Rule Learning is a method in data mining that identifies interesting relationships (associations) between variables in large datasets. 
 
The primary goal is to discover hidden patterns and correlations that can be useful for decision-making. 

This method is widely used in market basket analysis, where it helps in finding product associations that frequently occur together in transactions.

3-> Semi Supervised Machine Learning

It is partially Supervised and partially UnSupervised Machine Learning.

Labeling is very difficult like creating output from the data. It reuires many human hours to right.

But then the peoples thinks what if we don't need to label all the data like we only label 3 or 4 input columns and others get automatically labeled.

For example: Google Photos if we give data to google photos it grouping the data like seperate the image on person and the other person and then ask you to name this.

If we name this it will automatically labeled the remaining data.

4 -> Reinforcement 

In these scenerio we don't have any data. In this your algorithm start learning from scratch like us human beings.

There a company called Deep mind. They made agents. Go game , Alpha go they beat the world champion straight in the 4 games.

We give -points if the scenerio is wrong and reward if the scenerio is right.